.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH RADCLOCK 8 "October 23, 2020" "" "The radclock daemon"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
radclock \- The radclock daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B radclock
[ -xdvvvVh ] [ -c config_file ] [ -l log_file ] [ -i iface ] [ -n hostname ] [ -t hostname ] [ -p period ] [ -r pcap_in ] [ -s ascii_in ] [ -w pcap_out ] [ -a ascii_out ] [ -o sync_out ]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents the \fBradclock\fP daemon. See README and INSTALL files
provided with the package for pointers to further documentation.
.PP
The \fBradclock\fP is a software clock built on top of a suitable host hardware
counter, and a sequence of timestamp exchanges with a time server.
It is an implementation of the Robust Absolute and Difference clock (RADclock),
a clock synchronization algorithm based on a FeedForward (FF) paradigm described
in a suite of research papers by Darryl Veitch and coauthors since 2002.
Its Absolute clock is capable of synchronizing to Absolute time (UTC) with
considerably higher accuracy, and reliability, than ntpd.
Its Difference clock is capable of measuring time differences to far higher
accuracy and robustness, for example RTTs to nanosecond accuracy, even over very
noisy Internet paths.
.P
The radclock binary communicates with a remote time-server using standard NTP
request response packets. It relies on kernel patches to access bpf based
in-kernel raw timestamps (counter reads) of these packets. If these are not
available, it can `run dead' to synthesize time offline based on stored timestamp
traces.

On FreeBSD systems with full FFclock support, the binary can run as a daemon to
synchronize the  FFclock system clock which is integrated into the kernel's
timecounter mechanism (the FFclock provides generic support for a
FeedForward based system clock, but was designed according to RADclock principles),
and optionally also the traditional FB system clock.
Independently of this, it can also optionally serve time to other processes in
a number of ways using a library. In the case where the counter used is the TSC,
radclock can take advantage of kernel bypass mode when available, to access
counter reads without system all overhead.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -x
Do not attempt to serve time to the kernel or user processes. This is useful
when there is already a radclock daemon doing this, and one wants to run other
instances for data replay without interfering with it.
.TP
.B -d
Run the radclock as a service daemon. Requires super-user privileges.
NOTE: whether run as a daemon or not, disciplining of the system FFclock or
FBclock, when available, can be independently enabled or disabled.
.TP
.B -v
Verbose output in the log file.
.TP
.B -vv
Very verbose output in the log file.
.TP
.B -V
Print the radclock version.
.TP
.B -h
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B "-c config_file"
Specifies an alternative configuration file.
.TP
.B "-l log_file"
Specifies an alternative log file.
.TP
.B "-i iface"
Specifies the interface radclock should use to capture NTP packets.
.TP
.B "-n hostname"
Specifies the name of the local host running radclock. This ensures radclock processes only the NTP requests originating at the host.
.TP
.B "-t hostname"
Specifies the time server radclock sends requests to as a name or IP address. This should match the
configuration used by the ntpd daemon if using piggy-backing mode.
.TP
.B "-p period"
The period between NTP request queries sent by the host to the time-server.
In piggybacking mode, radclock does not send the queries itself, in which case
the value Must match that used by the ntpd daemon or the ntpdate calls, and must be fixed.
The default value is 16=2^4 seconds.
.TP
.B "-r pcap_in"
Replay mode. Makes the radclock replay a previously stored raw file in pcap format instead
of capturing packets on a live interface.
.TP
.B "-r ascii_in"
Replay mode. Makes the radclock replay a previously stored file in ascii format instead
of capturing packets on a live interface.
.TP
.B "-w pcap_out"
Causes radclock to store a raw data file in pcap format. The file can be read in
tcpdump or processed with libpcap. WARNING: some link layer fields have been abused.
.TP
.B "-a ascii_out"
Causes radclock to store a data file in ascii format. The file contains the
successfully matched and vetted 4tuple of timestamps extracted from NTP packets.
.TP
.B "-o sync_out"
Causes radclock to dump the RADclock algorithm internal state variables to file (expert use).

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/radclock.conf
If run as a daemon the radclock parses the configuration file. If the configuration
file does not exist it is created. Command line parameters overwrite the parameter
values stored in the configuration file. The file can be reparsed on the fly.
.TP
.I radclock.conf
If the radclock does not run as a daemon it parses or creates a configuration
in the working directory.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR radclock.conf (5)
.P
.br
.SH REPORTING BUGS
.SH COPYRIGHT
.SH AUTHOR
See AUTHORS file for a list of all contributors to the code.
.PP
This manual page was written by Darryl Veitch
.br
(darryl.veitch@uts.edu.au).
