.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH RADCLOCK.CONF 5 "October 23, 2020" "" "The radclock daemon configuration file"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
radclock.conf \- The radclock daemon configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I radclock.conf
is the configuration file for the \fBradclock\fP daemon and binary. For testing and
replay purposes, different configuration files can be created and edited. If
\fBradclock\fP is run as a daemon (using the -d option), it looks for
.I /etc/radclock.conf.
If not running as a daemon, the radclock binary looks for a
.I radclock.conf
configuration file in the current directory.
.PP
If no configuration file is found a new one is created with default values for all
parameters, and comment blocks explaining them. If an existing but outdated (version-wise) configuration file is found it
is updated while keeping existing values.
Command line options overwrite values specified in the configuration file.
Finally, the configuration file can be edited, and the binary then triggered to
reparse it to update parameters on the fly (for example using service radclock reload).
Only compatible parameter changes will be actioned.
.PP
The configuration file is organized in sections to aid understanding.

.SH PACKAGE VERSION
.P
.B package_version
Specifies the version of the package currently installed. It is also used
to check if the configuration file is outdated. This should not be modified.

The section also includes
.P
.B verbose_level
Possible values are quiet, normal, and high. High is very high, and should only be used for expert
troubleshooting. Verbosity level can be changed on the fly.
.SH SYNCHRONIZATION CLIENT PARAMETERS
.P
.B synchronization_type
Specifies the type of underlying synchronization exchange used. The typical value is "ntp",
meaning the standard bidirectional exchange of NTP request response packets, initiated by
radclock. See the configuration file for more details.
.P
.B polling_period
Specifies the poll period used by the process generating NTP packets
(typically the radclock daemon itself, but could be ntpd).
.P
.B hostname
The host running radclock. RADclock attempts to detect the hostname and
address, but this may fail. To avoid confusion and ensure the correct NTP packets are captured,
it is strongly recommended to specify the host name or IP address here.
.P
.B time_server
The time server radclock will query and try to synchronize to. It can be a network host name
or an IP address.

.SH SYNCHRONIZATION SERVER PARAMETERS
Each of these parameters are binary, taking values "on" or "off".
Each can be adjusted on the fly.
.P
.B ipc_server
If on, pushes RADclock parameter updates to a Shared Memory Segment for use by
user processes accessing RADclock via the radclock API.
.P
.B vm_udp_server
If on, pushes RADclock parameter updates to radclock clients over UDP, for use by
guest operating systems in a VM environment.
.P
.B xen_server
If on, pushes RADclock parameter updates to the zen store for guests.
.P
.B vmware_server
If on, pushes RADclock parameter updates to the VWware server for guests.
.P
.B ntp_server
If on, radclock serves time over the network, by responding to standard NTP
request packets. Other NTP modes not currently supported.
.P
.B adjust_FFclock
If on, pushes RADclock parameter updates to the kernel's FFclock, thereby synchronizing it.
This option is usually reserved to the radclock running as a daemon.
.P
.B adjust_FBclock
If on, pushes RADclock parameter updates to the kernel's traditional system clock
interface (for the kernel FB clock), thereby acting as an alternative to ntpd.
This option is usually reserved to the radclock running as a daemon.

.SH ENVIRONMENT AND TUNING PARAMETERS
.P
.B temperature_quality
Select a preset specifying parameters to match the host running RADclock.
These take into account hardware quality, age, and temperature environment.
Recent hardware in a temperature
controlled environment should be set to "excellent". For an old machine nearby a window
set to "poor". If in doubt, set to "good".
.P
The following six parameters offer more customized environmental tuning, and are
experimental (ask the maintainer). They are over-written by the temperature_quality keyword.
.P
.B ts_limit
.P
.B skm_scale
.P
.B rate_error_bound
.P
.B best_skm_rate
.P
.B offset_ratio
.P
.B plocal_quality

.B init_period_estimate
An initial estimate (in seconds) of the counter period. This improves output during early startup
before the first timestamp exchanges are processed. It is not critical.
.P
.B host_asymmetry
Estimate (in seconds) of the in-host component of underlying round-trip path asymmetry.
Typically this is unavailable and is set to zero.
.P
.B network_asymmetry
Estimate (in seconds) of the network component of underlying round-trip path asymmetry.
Typically this is unavailable and is set to zero.

.SH INPUT /OUTPUT PARAMETERS
.P
.B network_device
If the host has several network interfaces it could be useful to specify which one should be
used. The interface will be chosen first regardless of other settings.
.P
.B sync_input_pcap
Instead of capturing NTP packets on a live interface, a raw data file in pcap format captured
previously by radclock can be replayed using this option.
.P
.B sync_input_ascii
Instead of obtaining timestamps from NTP packets captured on a live interface, timestamps
previously extracted and saved by radclock can be replayed using this option.
.P
.B sync_output_pcap
Specify a file in which to dump raw NTP packets. This file is in pcap format and can be
parsed by tcpdump for example. Some fields have been slightly abused however.
.P
.B sync_output_ascii
Dump the timestamp 4tuples assessed as valid by RADclock preprocessing to this file,
one per line, in ascii format.
.P
.B clock_output_ascii
Dump internal clock state parameters for analysis in post-processing (expert debugging
use only).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR radclock (8),
.br
.SH AUTHOR
Configuration file and processing written by Julien Ridoux and Darryl Veitch. See AUTHORS file for a list of
all contributors to the code.
.PP
This manual page was written by Darryl Veitch
.br
(darryl.veitch@uts.edu.au).
